Getting started guide (#20)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/getting-started/12-technology-primer.md

---
layout: guide
title: Bitcoin technology primer
nav_order: 12
parent: Getting started
permalink: /getting-started/technology-primer/
---

<!--

Framing

Start with something readers will know, like "What is a bitcoin" and "How do I own bitcoin",
and work backwards to the technology.

-->

# Bitcoin technology primer

It can take many years to understand bitcoin in every detail, but luckily you don’t need to know everything to design great products. Let’s take a look at the most important ideas and technolgies behind Bitcoin, with an eye towards the basics you may need to design bitcoin products.

> The most fundamental read is the Bitcoin White Paper. Published on October 31, 2008 by the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, it lays out the fundamental system design in only 9 short pages.

Reviewer: > the Bitcoin White Paper

perhaps a link to the whitepaper?

Read more in our chapter about [Private Key Management](/).

</div>

## What is the mempool?

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/getting-started/technology/mempool.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/getting-started/technology/mempool@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 400
   height = 400
   layout = "float-right"
%}

Every transaction needs to be processed before it arrives at the recipient. The waiting line for new transactions is called the mempool. The Bitcoin network can only process a certain amount of transactions per day, so it may take longer to process your transactions during busy times. Transactions that involve higher fees are typically processed faster.

</div>

## What is a block?

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/getting-started/technology/block.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/getting-started/technology/block@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 400
   height = 400
   layout = "float-right"
%}

> From the mempool, transactions are bundled into blocks. One a transaction is in a block that the network has accepted, the transaction is considered "confirmed". Blocks are created roughly every 10 minutes.

Reviewer: Typo `When`?

</div>

## What is a block chain?

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/getting-started/technology/blockchain.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/getting-started/technology/blockchain@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 400
   height = 400
   layout = "float-right-desktop"
%}

A term that has become widely popular, blockchain refers to the linking of blocks by embedding information about one block into the next one. Every block contains a hash of the previous block. This allow for verifying that new blocks are based on the same data set that nodes in the Bitcoin network have agreed on.

</div>

## How are transactions processed?

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/getting-started/technology/mining-a-block.jpg"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/getting-started/technology/mining-a-block@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 400
   height = 400
   layout = "float-right-desktop"
%}

> This function is performed by miners, which are computers that group new transactions from the mempool into blocks and try to get those blocks accepted by the Bitcoin network. They are called miners because the creation of new blocks is rewarded by freshly minted bitcoin. This is the only way bitcoin are created, so there is heavy competition around mining.

Reviewer 2: An important function of the miners is that they verify that an output can be spent by checking those in the transaction against the UTXO set.

---
layout: guide
title: X Bitcoin technology primer
nav_order: 12
parent: Getting started
permalink: /getting-started/technology-primer/
---

# Bitcoin technology primer

<!--

It can take many years to understand bitcoin in every detail, but luckily you don’t need to know everything to design great products. Let’s take a look at the most important aspects of the technology behind bitcoin, with an eye towards the basics needed to design bitcoin products.

> The most fundamental read is the Bitcoin White Paper. Published on October 31, 2008 by the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, it layous the fundamental system design in only 9 short pages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The most fundamental read is the Bitcoin White Paper. Published on October 31, 2008 by the mysterious Satoshi Nakamoto, it lays out the fundamental system design in only 9 short pages.
```

While we typically use one credit card number or have one bank account number in traditional banking, addresses in Bitcoin offer a bit more flexibility. While it is not required, it is recommended that a new address is generated for every transaction. Since all Bitcoin transactions are public, reusing the same address makes it easy for others to analyze your financial habits.
That’s where wallets come in. A Bitcoin wallet is typically based on a so-called recovery phrase, which is similar to private keys of addresses mentioned above. From a recovery phrase, wallets can generate many unique addresses.

This mechanism of generating a piece of information from another one, where one can be shared and the other one is kept private is known as public-key cryptography. While there are many other cryptographic techniques used in Bitcoin, this is one that you should understand well.

> So you may ask how Bitcoin are created? This involves a process we know as mining. Miners are computers that help process transactions. For this effort, which requires huge amounts of computing power, they are rewarded with freshly minted Bitcoin. At the moment, 6.25 new Bitcoin are created around every 10 minutes, which is an annual inflation rate of 1.86%. The creation of Bitcoin is tightly controlled via code because money only has value if it is scarce.

Reviewer 3: I would say one of the properties of good money is scarcity but not the only thing that gives it value. e.g durability, portability, fungible, divisible etc

Author: That leads us back to the other point you made about bitcoin being (or not being) a global currency, and how that is defined. Maybe we do need a section on that, or link to a good resource that explains it ([example](https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/100314/why-do-bitcoins-have-value.asp)). We might end up having to refer to these properties in a lot of other sections, too.

> So you may ask how Bitcoin are created? This involves a process we know as mining. Miners are computers that help process transactions. For this effort, which requires huge amounts of computing power, they are rewarded with freshly minted Bitcoin. At the moment, 6.25 new Bitcoin are created around every 10 minutes, which is an annual inflation rate of 1.86%. The creation of Bitcoin is tightly controlled via code because money only has value if it is scarce.

Reviewer 4: > At the moment, 6.25 new Bitcoin are created around every 10 minutes, which is an annual inflation rate of 1.86%.

Perhaps after the above sentence add something like:  "Approximately every 4 years, this amount is reduced by 50%, resulting in a supply capped at 21 million"

Author: I ended up removing this part. I am considering a page on bitcoin economics on which this information would be a natural fit, but right now it seems secondary to other content that is more focused on design.
